<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<div>
<h1>About Me</h1>
  <body>
   <p>My name is Bri. I'm from Augusta, GA, and -shameless plug- if anyone knows where I can find boiled peanuts in Oklahoma I will be your best friend forever! I have a German Shepherd named Tanto, a Belgian Malinois named Dub, and a cat named Max who always looks angry in photos.</p>
</div>
<div>
  <h1>Goals</h1>
<p>My goal is to completely change my career path into being a full-time website coder/programmer, and eventually work my way up in the industry to be a web developer.
Currently I'm more drawn to front-end stuff, but having barely begun to understand what the various avenues are I may change that in the future.<br>My first goal while I'm in the class is to completely immerse myself in the coding world the way I did in the dog world, so that it becomes habit to talk and think about these things instead of being a chore I remind myself to do.</p>
</div>
<div>
<h1>Contact Me</h1>
<h3>You can reach me at:</h3>
  <ul><li><a href="https://www.github.com/bweathers1208.github.io/home.md">Github Page</a></li><br>
  <li>bweathers1208@gmail.com</li><br>
  <li><a href="https://www.twitter.com/bweathers1208">Twitter</a></li><br>
    <li><a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/bri-weathers">LinkedIn</a></li></ul>
</div>
<h1>My Blog</h1>
      <h2><strong>Post 1-- Oct 6, 2019: How Dogsport Prepared Me For Learning How to Code</strong></h2>
<div></div>
<h4>What is Dogsport?</h4>
<p>In early 20th Century Germany, the German Shepherd Dog breed was invented and finalized by Max von Stephanitz along with the breed's first official breed standard, or the ideal picture of the breed’s physical and temperamental specifications. Along with this, though, he created a breed suitability test called Schutzhund, (German for The Protection Dog,) comprised of three separate phases of competition (Tracking, Obedience, and Protection phases,) and preceded by a separate temperament test. von Stephanitz's idea was that only the dogs who passed all of the phases of the test with confidence and a stable temperament would be suitable for breeding, in order to weed out those who were either unstable or untrainable, and ultimately keep all future German Shepherd Dogs true to the breed.<br>
  Schutzhund is still practiced around the world today and among the breed enthusiasts/responsible breeders, is still used as the standard by which dogs are judged. Passing the Schutzhund test is called “titling,” and while breeders participate in the sport to show their dogs’ capabilities as a way of holding themselves and their breeding stock accountable, some enthusiasts like myself partake in the training just as a way of forming a relationship with their dog, and as a hobby their dog can enjoy with them! These dogs are bred for this work, and they enjoy working to please their handlers and satisfy the drives present through their genetics. In recent years, the official Breed Club in Germany has changed the sport’s name to IPO, (Internationale Prüfungs-Ordnung, German for "International Exam Rules,") and then most recently they changed it again to IGP, (Internationale Gebrauchshund Pruefung, German for "International Working Dog Exam.")<br>
  This is a severely simplified explanation of the sport & how it came about, why it's still around, etc., so for those who want to learn more about it (because I find the subject utterly fascinating,) <a href="https://www.germanshepherddog.com">here's a link.</a>
  <h4>So How in the World Does This Relate to Coding?</h4>
  Many, many hours go into training these dogs to do the simplest task. Due to the age and widespread participation in the sport around the world, competition is taken very seriously and every tiny detail matters, down to the dog's tail wagging during trial and how much focus he gives his handler during the heel exercise. Taking a mental picture of how you want something to look when you actively compete in the future, and reverse-engineering how to communicate that picture to an animal that doesn't speak your language (or any language, for that matter,) and making that mental picture a reality, awakens a certain problem-solving skill that I'm now learning is also imperative when it comes to communicating with a computer via coding. To quote [paraphrase] one of my training-idols, Dave Kroyer, "If my dog fails, I've failed. Dogs only know what we teach them. If my dog disobeys me, there is some inconsistency in my training that I need to fix." As I'm sure many on this site can attest, the same is true with computers as it relates to writing code. Computers can only do what we give them instructions to, and even then it will only work if the instructions are clearly spelled out, in the exact correct format, etc.<br>
    When I began training my puppy, I'd been attending a weekly dog training club to learn from the experienced handlers every weekend for 12 months, prior to bringing him home. This is rare, as many people involved with dogsport begin going to club after they have the dog. I quickly found out just how much I didn't know about training, even with the extra year I'd given myself. I've been told that working as a coder/programmer/web developer is a constant regeneration of that feeling-- I'll call it a "Clueless but Capable" feeling. I loved how the dog community by reassuring me that, to quote my training director at the time, "If you don't feel stupid on the field with your dog, you're doing it wrong. Accept that you will feel like a failure, go ahead and expect it; know that that's part of learning how to do this effectively. You will mess up. That's where learning takes place."<br>
  <h4>How The Two Connected For Me</h4>
    99% of the time, I do feel as if I'm completely clueless, and I do have the occasional "Why did I ever think I could train a Schutzhund dog, especially with never having owned a dog before? I've bitten off more than I can chew, this dog deserves a better handler, I'm holding him back, this was a bad decision," thoughts... Okay, they're more routine than occasional. Whatever. But recently, someone asked my coding mentor what her day on the job looked like behind the scenes. She mentioned this exact feeling and continued with, "And then you take a break, come back to your screen, figure out where your code failed, you realize it was a stupid mistake, that you forgot to close an anchor element or something, and then you go, 'I'M A GENIUS!' and you remember it's not the end of the world, and you remember why you do this: Because it's a constant challenge and it's honestly pretty fun." That's honestly when I knew coding was for me. The drive to do better and be better with and for my dog has me participating in Schutzhund, not because I'm the best or that I even <ital>want</ital> to be the best right now, but because I enjoy learning a completely new skill that is out of the ordinary, that I'm passionate about and that reminds me that I <ital>can</ital> do things I never thought possible.. And over my first week of enrollment in @ctrlshiftcode school, I can already see that spark beginning to light a closely-related flame.</p>
<!--This is not finished, submitting currently to show progress-->
</body>
<footer> "Choose a job you love, and you'll never work a day in your life." -Unknown </footer>
</html>
